Any programmer needs a decent code editor. Note that notepad is *not*
a decent code editor, while gedit is only barely decent. There are
many sensible editors out there, and you should search for the one
that you prefer.

Unless you have a good reason, **you are strongly advised to use
[geany](www.geany.org/) for this assignment**. The rest of this page
is there for your erudition.

Personally, I code using [Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org) myself, but
I'm not sure that I would advise you to start learning with Eclipse.
That beast is huge (several Gb of RAM), and not very intuitive for
learners But if you want to dig a swimming pool, will you get a light
and nice spoon, or an heavy excavator? If you decide to go for the
powerful excavator, pick the Java version of eclipse, then add the
[PyDev](http://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/pydev-python-ide-eclipse)
plugin.

When not using Eclipse, I'm an happy
[Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) user. That's another
venerable editor (both emacs and Vim first came out in 1976), which
main feature is its configuration power: you can do everything in
emacs, provided that you configured it correctly, or developed the
right plugin. But that's also its main drawback: configuring the
perfect environment can become rather time consuming. For now, if you
go for emacs (which would earn you my respect), you should just add
the following to the file ~/.emacs to enable Ctrl-C and friends.
```(cua-mode t)```

Real hackers will certainly prefer Vim. You can be certain that it is
installed on every Unix box that you will ever encounter. Even if I
don't use it when I have the choice, I learned its basic usage over
the years. This [online game](http://vim-adventures.com/)
constitutes a perfect introduction to Vim. And it's fun too, so you
can play it even if you don't plan to use Vim on a day-to-day basis :)

If you are using Mac, then you will probably like [Sublime
Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/). Windows people sometimes prefer
[Code::Blocks](http://www.codeblocks.org/), but I cannot appreciate
any of these tools as I am forbidden to read their source code (ask me
if you want an explanation). 

Finally, the python documentation lists [several dozen of
editors](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEditors) that you can
choose from.